This is chapter 9 of our batch of short stories.
This next one is about the soldiers actually coming home after being demobilized.
And the problems that caused for David Lloyd George.
In the beginning of 1919, as we've said, at the end of the war, there were 50 soldier mutinies.
Over 100,000 men refusing to obey orders, some even forming Bolshevik-style soldiers councils.
They wanted to be demobilized.
However, the scheme at the time introduced by Lord Darby meant that those who held important jobs before the war were released first.
As they were the last to be sent to war, this meant last in first out and caused significant iron anger in the army.
Especially amongst those soldiers who'd been in the war since the beginning.
After the election in 1918, during which Lord George had promised instant demobilization,
Winston Churchill became Prime Minister of War.
And he introduced a new scheme that meant those with the longest service, most injuries, and over 37 years old, would be sent home first.
This wasn't an act of generosity.
It was mainly because he wanted to create a professional army to fight in Russia.
In 12 months, the army was reduced from 3.8 million to 900,000 soldiers.
This did not end their dissatisfaction.
Soldiers returning home received a railway ticket to their home destination.
They also got an out of work donation insurance policy,
which ensured them against unavoidable unemployment of up to 26 weeks in the 12 months following demobilization.
They received in addition an advance of pay, a fortnight's ration book,
and also a voucher, Army Form Z-50, for the return of their great coat to a railway station during leave.
Soldiers could also choose to either have a clothing allowance of 52 shillings and sixpence,
or be provided with a suit of plain clothes.
Final leave beginning the day after he was dispersed.
For most soldiers, keeping the 52 shillings and sixpence made more sense,
so they left to go home still in uniform, even with the steel helmet and great coat.
While on final leave, the soldier was technically still in the army,
so he could now go about in plain clothes or legally could wear uniform.
During leave, if the soldier went to a railway station with the great coat, he was paid a pound.
The fact was that the soldier was getting, even with insurance, less wages than anyone in work,
and had very little money when he arrived home.
In reality, these were unhappy and changed men.
As the Manchester Guardian stated,
the last three or four years of these men's lives have been spent in the scientific practice of violence.
And it's undoubtedly true, that must have affected them and their behaviour when they came home.
When they left for war, they were told they would return as heroes to a better life.
When they returned, there were fewer jobs, no new housing, rationing.
Many were also generally angry about the way they'd been treated at the end of the war.
In port cities that had been booming when they went to war,
the whole economy had changed for these men and everything else around them.
Shipping companies had been decimated by war, trade was a problem, and their families,
well, the women they had left had changed.
Many had been working in the war industries and their attitudes were different.
Not surprisingly, when they'd known about or been involved in mutiny on soldiers' union,
many soldiers became involved in strike action or street violence after they were demobbed.
Many joining or supporting the sailors' soldier and airmen's union,
which was run as a Soviet, a people's council rather than a standard leader-led union.
As Simon Webb says, many wearing old army great coats or metal ribbons
often appeared to be ringleaders when violent protests were taking place.
Active in industrial dispute situations as organisers of violent elements in the crowd,
that violence is demonstrated by the destruction of Luton Town Hall in July 1919,
which occurred because the British government decided to hold a peace day march on the 19th
July 1919 and across the country, parallel events were set up by local councils.
In Luton, the council decided to have a large amount of festivities,
but they denied the discharged sailors' and soldiers' association the right to use a local
park for religious service. So the ex-servicemen decided instead to arrange a rival march,
a rival to the Lord Mayor's procession. The floats and bands of the Mayor's parade arrived
at the town hall at the same time as a large group of ex-servicemen, who demanded to know why their
request to use Wardown Park had been denied. They were ignored and as a consequence the town hall
was stormed and stoned. The police managed to disperse the crowds, but at 10 pm that night,
the ex-servicemen returned crowbars, pickaxes and bricks and broke into the town hall,
and despite the police presence, they burnt it to the ground, joined by civilians.
Now Luton is just one example of ex-servicemen reacting violently to the situation they returned
back to. Across the way to the West Midlands and in Swindon and many other areas, there was
riots and looting involving ex-servicemen. Of course ex-servicemen were seen consistently
and were arrested as being involved in the race riots across Britain in June, but even as we've
said upon their demobilization, they still were a problem for the British government
and their disillusionment was an ongoing problem and an ongoing part of the fear
of David Lloyd George and the government that a Bolshevik uprising was not only possible but likely.